---
layout: section
level: 1
---

# Model-Checking CTL with Fairness Constraints
## Extend the CTL model-checking algorithm to handle fairness constraints.

---
level: 3
hideInToc: true
---
# Model-Checking CTL with Fairness Constraints
Introduction

Let $M=(S,R,L,F)$ be a fair Kripke structure, and $F=\{P_1,\ldots,P_k\}$ be the set of fairness constraints.

A SCC $C$ of the graph of $M$ is fair with respect to $F$ iff. $\forall P_i\in F, \exist t_i\in (C\cap P_i)$.

We will give an algorithm for checking $\mathbf{EG}f_1$ with respect to a fair structure.
A lemma analogous to <Link class="font-serif font-bold" to="9">Lemma 5.1</Link> is needed to ensure the correctness of the algorithm.

Similarly, we obtain a set $M^\prime$ from $M$ by removing from $S$ all states that $f_1$ does not fairly hold in.

$$
\begin{aligned}
M^\prime&=(S^\prime,R^\prime,L^\prime,F^\prime) \\
S^\prime&=\{s\in S\mid M,s\models_Ff_1\} \\
R^\prime&=R\vert_{S^\prime \times S^\prime} \\
L^\prime&=L\vert_{S^\prime} \\
F^\prime&=\{P_i\cap S^\prime \mid P_i\in F\} \\
\end{aligned}
$$

---
level: 3
---
# Model-Checking CTL with Fairness Constraints
Describe *CheckFairEG* algorithm

<v-click>

<Lemma title="5.3">

$M,\;s\models_F\mathbf{E}_f\mathbf{G}f_1$ if and only if the following conditions are satisfied:

1. $s\in S^\prime$.
2. There exists a path in $S^\prime$ that leads from $s$ to some node $t$ in a nontrivial maximal strongly connected component of $C$ of the graph $(S^\prime,R^\prime)$.

</Lemma>

</v-click>

<v-click>

The proof of this lemma is also similar, and we omit it here.

For <span class="font-mono">CheckFairEG</span>$(f_1)$, who adds $\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{G}f_1$ to the label of $s$ for every $s$ such that $M,s\models_F\mathbf{E}\mathbf{G}f_1$, we assume likewise that:

$$
f_1\in label(s) \iff M,s\models_Ff_1.
$$

</v-click>

---
level: 3
---
# Model-Checking CTL with Fairness Constraints
Describe *CheckFairEG* algorithm

The procedure body is the same as <span class="font-mono">CheckEG</span> shown in <Link class="font-serif font-bold" to="12">Figure 5.1</Link>, except that *MSCC* now consists of the set of nontrivial **fair** MSCCs.

- The **complexity** of the algorithm is $O((|S|+|R|)\cdot|F|)$
  - It's necessary to determine which components are fair
  - Involves  examining every component to see if it has a state from each fairness constraint.

How to generalize the algorithm to check other CTL formulas?

- Introduce an additional **atomic proposition** $fair$.
  - Holds true at state $s$ iff. there is a fair path starting from $s$, so,
    $$
        fair=\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{G}true
    $$
  - Procedure <span class="font-mono">CheckFairEG</span> can be used to label states with $fair$.

---
level: 3
---
# Model-Checking CTL with Fairness Constraints
Generalization of the algorithm

- To determine if $M,s\models_F\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{X}f_1$, check $M,s\models\mathbf{E}\mathbf{X}(f_1\land fair)$
- To determine if $M,s\models_F\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}(f_1\mathbf{U}f_2)$, check $M,s\models\mathbf{E}(f_1\mathbf{U}(f_2\land fair))$
  - By calling <span class="font-mono">CheckEU</span>$(f_1, f_2\land fair)$

Also, the total time complexity of the algorithm is $O(|f|\cdot(|S|+|R|)\cdot|F|)$.

<v-click>

<Theorem title="5.4">

There is an algorithm for determining whether a CTL formula $f$ is true with respect to the fair semantics in a state $s$ of the structure $M=(S,R,L,F)$ that runs in time $O(|f|\cdot(|S|+|R|)\cdot|F|)$.

</Theorem>

</v-click>

Similarly, this theorem's correctness can be proved like <Link class="font-serif font-bold" to="14">Theorem 5.2</Link>.

---
level: 2
---
# Example: Microwave Oven
Illustrating the use of fairness constraints

We check the formula below with the same model as <Link class="font-serif font-bold" to="15">Figure 5.3</Link>:

$$
\mathbf{A}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{G}(Start\to \mathbf{A}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{F}Heat)
\equiv
\neg\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{F}(Start\land\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{G}\neg Heat)
$$

We only look at the paths where the user always uses the microwave oven correctly and keep other variables unchanged:

$$
  F = \{P\},\quad
  P = \{s\mid s\models Start\land Close\land\neg Error\}.
$$

For $S^\prime=\llbracket\neg Heat\rrbracket$, we have $MSCC=\{1,2,3,5\}$, which is not fair, since no state in $MSCC$ satisfies $Start\land Close\land\neg Error$.
  
So we have $\llbracket\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{G}\neg Heat\rrbracket=\llbracket\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{F}(Start\land\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{G}\neg Heat)\rrbracket=\emptyset$.

Finally, we have $\llbracket\neg(\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{F}(Start\land\mathbf{E}_\mathrm{f}\mathbf{G}\neg Heat))\rrbracket=\{1,2,3,4,5,6,7\}$. So all states of the program satisfy the formula under the given fairness constraints.