---
layout: section
level: 1
---
# CTL Model Checking via Fixpoint Computation
## Algorithm that manipulates entire sets

---
level: 2
title: Introduction
---
# CTL Model Checking via Fixpoint Computation
Introduction

In <Link to="5">section 5.1</Link>, we discussed the explicit model-checking algorithm, which manipulates individual states and transitions.

**Symbolic model-checking algorithms** manipulate entire sets of states and transitions.

- Based on *fixpoint* characterization of the temporal logic operators.
- Use ordered binary decision diagrams (OBDDs) to represent sets of states and transitions.
- Quadratic time complexity, while explicit model-checking is linear.
- Significantly reduced space complexity.
  - Enables verification of systems with very large state spaces.

---
level: 2
title: Background on Fixpoint Theory
---
# CTL Model Checking via Fixpoint Computation
Background on Fixpoint Theory

A set $S^\prime\subseteq S$ is a **fixpoint** of a function $\tau: \mathcal{P}(S)\to\mathcal{P}(S)$ if $\tau(S^\prime)=S^\prime$.

---
hideInToc: true
---
<v-click>

<Theorem title="5.5">

Let $\tau$ be a predicate transformer on $\mathcal{P}(S)$. Then if $\tau$ is monotonic it has a greatest fixpoint, $\nu Z.\tau(Z)$, and a least fixpoint, $\mu Z.\tau(Z)$, defined as follows:

- $\nu Z.\tau(Z) = \bigcup\{Z\;\vert\;Z \subseteq \tau(Z)\}$.
- $\mu Z.\tau(Z) = \bigcap\{Z\;\vert\;Z \supseteq \tau(Z)\}$.

Furhtermore, if $\tau$ is $\bigcap$-continuous, then $\nu Z.\tau(Z)=\bigcap\tau^{i}(true)$, and if $\tau$ is $\bigcup$-continuous, then $\mu Z.\tau(Z)=\bigcup\tau^{i}(false)$.

</Theorem>

</v-click>

---
hideInToc: true
---
<v-click>

<Lemma title="5.6">

if $S$ is finite and $\tau$ is monotonic, then $\tau$ is also $\bigcap$-continuous and $\bigcup$-continuous.

</Lemma>

</v-click>

---
hideInToc: true
---
<v-click>

<Lemma title="5.7">

if $\tau$ is monotonic, then for every $i$, $\tau^{i}(false)\subseteq\tau^{i+1}(false)$ and $\tau^{i}(true)\supseteq\tau^{i+1}(true)$.

</Lemma>

</v-click>

---
hideInToc: true
---
<v-click>

<Lemma title="5.8">

if $\tau$ is monotonic and $S$ is finite, the there is an integer $i_0$ such that for every $j\ge i_0, \tau^j(false)=\tau^{i_0}(false)$. Similarly, there is some $j_0$ such that for every $j\ge j_0, \tau^j(true)=\tau^{j_0}(true)$.

</Lemma>

<br/>

<Lemma title="5.9">

if $\tau$ is monotonic and $S$ is finite, then there is an integer $i_0$ such that $\mu Z.\tau(Z)=\tau^{i_0}(false)$. Similarly, there is an integer $j_0$ such that $\nu Z.\tau(Z)=\tau^{j_0}(true)$.

</Lemma>

</v-click>
