---
layout: section
---
# Calculating Ample Sets

The Complexity of Checking the Conditions

Heuristics for Calculating Ample Sets

---

# Conditions for Ample Sets
Review

- **C0** : $\mathit{ample}(s)=\varnothing\iff\mathit{enabled}(s)=\varnothing$
- **C1** : For every path in the full state graph that start at $s$
  - A transition that is denpendent on a transition in $\mathit{ample}(s)$ cannot be executed without a transition in $\mathit{ample}(s)$ occuring first.
- **C2** : If $s$ is not fully expanded, then every $a\in\mathit{ample}(s)$ is invisible.
- **C3** : A cycle is not allowed if it contains a state in which some transition $a$ is enabled, but is never included in $\mathit{ample}(s)$ for any state $s$ on the cycle.

---

# The Complexity of Checking the Conditions

<Theorem title="12.4">

Checking condition **C1** for a state $s$ and a set of transitions $T\in\mathit{enabled}(s)$ is at least as hard as checking reachability for the full state graph.

</Theorem>

<span class="font-serif italic font-bold">Proof.</span>

Consider checking whether a state $r$ is **reachable** in a transition system $\mathcal{T}$ **from** an initial state $s_0$. And reduce this problem to deciding condition **C1**.

Assuming 2 new transition
- $\alpha$ is only enabled at $r$.
- $\beta$ is enabled from the initial state $s_0$
  - And independent of all transitions of $\mathcal{T}$.

We construct them so that they are **dependent**. 
- **e.g.** they change same variable

---

# The Complexity of Checking the Conditions
proof of Theorem 12.4

- Consider $\{\beta\}$ as a candidate for $\mathit{ample}(s_0)$
  - Assume **C1** is violated
  - There is a path in the new state graph that $\alpha$ is performed before $\beta$.
  - This path leads from $s_0$ to $r$. ($\alpha$ is only enabled at $r$)
  - Transition sequence from $s_0$ to $r$ also exists in the original state graph.
  - $r$ is reachable from $s_0$ in the original state graph.
- If $r$ is reachable from $s_0$ in the original state graph
  - There is a transition sequence from $s_0$ to $r$ does not contain $\beta$.
  - This sequence is also appears in the new state graph.
  - Can be extended by $\alpha$ taken at $r$.
  - Violates **C1**.

---

# The Complexity of Checking the Conditions
Checking **C3**

- Checking **C1** for arbitrary subset of enabled transitions should be avoided.
  - An efficient procedure will be introduced in the next section.
  - Trade-off between efficiency of computation and the amount of reduction.

**C3** is also defined in global terms but refers to reduced state graph.
- Generate a reduced state graph and then to correct it by adding additional transitions until it satisfies **C3**.